# BigDataProject-StackOverFlow

We are building a project to predict and analyze StackOverflow data using Spark
& MLlib. This project visualizes the results generated by the Spark & MLib project
using a node server and a react app.

## node-server
The node server works as the backend of the system. It reads the generated results 
by Spark & MLib projects and sends them to the front-end react-app using several APIs.

### Node.js Installation
We have used nvm for installing nodejs. The version of node we are using is **16.13.0**.  
Here is the link for installing nvm in macos and ubuntu:  
https://nodesource.com/blog/installing-node-js-tutorial-using-nvm-on-mac-os-x-and-ubuntu/  
For windows:  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/dev-environment/javascript/nodejs-on-windows.  

#### How to Run the node-server:
1.  Clone the repository BigDataProject-StackOverFlow  
2.  Run command in a terminal.  
    ```bash
    cd BigDataProject-StackOverFlow/node-server/
    npm install
    ```  
    This command should be run only once for setting up the node environment of the project.  
3.  Every time you want to run the node-server, you will use the following commands:  
    ```bash 
    cd BigDataProject-StackOverFlow/node-server/
    npm start
    ```
    However run this command after setting up the environment using the commands described 
    in point 2 above for the very first time. After that you can just run these commands to
    start the node server.  
4.  Open your browser and go to https://localhost:3001.  
    We are using port 3001 instead 
    of 3000 becasue our react-app is using port 3000.
  
## react-app
This app visualizes the results generated by the Spark & MLib project
using different visualization technique such as column chart, pie chart, etc.
We have used create-react-app to create our react-app. Follow this link:  
https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html  

#### How to Run the react-app
1.  ```bash
    cd BigDataProject-StackOverFlow/react-app
    npm install
    ```
    Use this command for the very first time for setting up the react environment.
2.  For starting the react server use the following commands:  
    ```bash
    cd BigDataProject-StackOverFlow/react-app
    npm start
    ```
    Use this command after commands from point 1(if commands from point 1 needed).
3.  Open your browser and go to https://localhost:3000


## Important
Please start the node-server before staring the react-app
